Topic: The Secrets of Sustainability in the Time of Drought


Reference:
Genesis 26, Ecclesiastes 11, Isaiah 58:9-11, 14, 1:16-19,

Psalms 23, Acts 17:28, Genesis 47:13-31; 43:1-2; 41:1-57;

Matthew 6:9; Genesis 30:27-43; 2 Kings 8:1-6, Malachi 3:6-12


Definition of Terms:
1. Secret: Enigma, Concealed, Riddle, Clandestine

2. Sustainability: Nourishing

3. Time: Period, Interval, Stage, Phase, Epoch, Era

4. Drought: Dearth, Deficiency, Scarcity, Famine, Lack


Introduction:
Everyone in the world, most especially in Nigeria in Africa continent is looking for a way out

of one drought or the other. However, in this study, as it relates us, we will be considering

drought of finance in the twenty-first century i.e. in the era of AI (Artificial Intelligence).

It is no more obscured in its nature that Nigeria Economy is nothing to write home about. Hence, this places

a hardship experience on her citizens both old and the young. Resultantly, experts' suggestions are all becoming

objective. Therefore, there arises pressure as a result of tomorrow uncertainties in the mind of people of the nation, Nigeria.

To bring hope of a better tomorrow, the LORD, our shepherd is unveiling the secrets of sustainability in the time of drought that if faithfully

deployed or applied, we would forever be flourishing in all times i.e. hard-time, perilous time, and in abundance itself.


Part 1: The Time of Drought:
This period of lack is also referred to as the period of famine. During this time, the poor becomes poorer and also the rich sometimes becomes poor without

idea or wisdom.

This is an unpalatable stage in life that anyone would not pray for. There are alot associated to this period based on history and experiences.

During this time, the following are at the high side of equilibrium scale.

1. The strong and the weak compromise their integrity, succumb to sexual immorality temptation of satan, ritualism, stealing, and lying.

2. Trading destiny for short-time relief if there is anyone at all.

3. Depression leading to death of many people.

4. Impatience gearing towards wrong choices and wrong decision making.

5. Societal demands resulting into evil occurrences.

6. Degradation of people commitment to their faith, their spouses and their families at large.

7. Satan logically strategize by intruding into every aspect of human endeavors to cause people fall out of God's grace and mercy.

Hence, during this time satan and his co-hort harvest multitude of souls, destinies, bright futures and people's hope.

8. World wisdom is adopted over God's like wisdom, logical reasoning over God's kind of reasoning.

9. Gross of falsehood from the pit of hell overwhelming people that there is way out of the drought or famine time.

10. Separation of families' members in our society, hence, leaving us a very sick society.

Hence, is the reason why God is presenting this to us:

Thanks to God, our father, to whom all abundance belongs. In his infinite mercy, and sufficience, He has foreseen these days and has provided us solution our of these wiles of the devil, the time of drought.


Part 2: The Secrets of Sustenance or Flourishing
The following are the proven secrets of sustainability in the time of drought that if deployed by individuals, help to avoid the perils that are associated to the time of drought.

The following are the mitigating factors of suffering during famine but not exhausted:

1. Saving

2. Investing

3. Reduce Spending on want while normalizing spending on needs

4. Solve People Problem (Do business)

5. Be a Producer more than being a consumer

"You become poorer if all you think about is to consume more than being a producer who produces more" ~ SPa'24

6. Pay your tithe faithfully

7. Share no matter how little

8. Applying God's type of wisdom

In conclusion:

Hear from God which could mean to say involve God in the choice or decision you are making during this time.

The very first thing man can engage during this season of hardship is the choice to involve God. God, who is all knowing, he knows everything about the time of drought or famine.

Therefore, he knows the way out of it. And this way out, is a set of secrets of abundance as enumerated above but not exhausted.

Remember in the book of Psalms 25:14 which says "The secret of the LORD is with them that fear him; and he will shew them his covenant."

verse 12 says "What man is he that feareth the LORD? him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose." The access key to this set of secrets

is the fear of God i.e. referencing God in all that you do during `pre-drought, in-drought, and post-drought`. God stepped in for Isaac during the time of hardship and taught him the way out of the peril of the famine.

Hence, made Isaac narrative to be different from the other stories. He sang the song of upliftment while other sang the song to lack and hardship.

It can be deduced that Isaac feared the LORD through the teachings he received from his father, Abraham as attested by God in Genesis 18:18-19 which says "... For I know him (Abraham), that he will command his children and

his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do justice and judgment; that the LOD may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him". So therefore, God stepping in for Isaac was not accidental.

Isaac was a man of His Presence, Isaac wa a man of the secret place, who entreats God for everything to underscore this statement, in Genesis 24:63, Psalms 1:2, Genesis 25:21. All of these made it easy for Isaac to clearly hear from

God as to what he should do and not to do during the era of famine of his time aside the one experienced during his father's time (Genesis 12:10; 26:1).

Longing always after God, makes it easy for an individual to clearly hear the voice of God that he or she pants after, The psalmist says in Psalms 62:11, "God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God."

Remember that this psalmist was a man who panted after God according to Psalms 42:1 "As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God." this enhances his hearing ability for him to have heard the sayings of God twice.

God is speaking in this time as well, are you man or woman of his presence i.e. do you engage Him in your decision making process during this time of hardship for what to do that will always put you on top of the current situation?

Do not be carried away by the noise of the world neither be overwhelmed by the voice of the famine or drought.

Note, the voice of God can only be heard by the people of His Presence because it is unique and still voice (1 Kings 19:12-13). Therefore, be a man or a woman of His Presence to get His voice registered in your inner-man.

Other ref: Proverbs 3:5 says "Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding"


Author: Sunday P. Afolabi (SPa)

Teacher: The Holy Spirit

Glory: To God be the glory by Christ Jesus

Preached at: RCCG Agapa Parish Jos,
under RCCG Love Assembly Zonal Headquarter,
under RCCG All Saints Parish (ASP) Provincial Headquarter,
under RCCG Jesus House Regional Headquarter, Jos.

@2024

Takeaway:
Drought shall be over but I perceive that this will last for seven (7) years. But you can be flourishing within this period if the aforementioned are considered use. God bless you!